docs/basics/coordinate-systems.mdx, before:

---
title: Coordinate Systems
---

import Parameter from "@site/src/components/Parameter";
import Type from "@site/src/components/Type";

A <Type>coordinate</Type> is a position on the canvas on which the picture is drawn. They take the form of dictionaries and the following subsections define the key-value pairs for each system. Some systems have a more implicit form as an array of values and CeTZ attempts to infer the system based on the element types.

## XYZ

Defines a point `x` units right, `y` units upward and `z` units away.

<Parameter name="x" types="number" default_value="0">
  The number of units in the `x` direction.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="y" types="number" default_value="0">
  The number of units in the `y` direction.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="z" types="number" default_value="0">
  The number of units in the `z` direction.
</Parameter>

The implicit form can be given as an {{array}} of two or three <Type>number</Type>s, as in `(x, y)` or `(x, y, z)`.

```typc example
line((0,0), (x: 1))
line((0,0), (y: 1))
line((0,0), (z: 1))

// Implicit form
line((2, 0), (3, 0))
line((2, 0), (2, 1, 0))
line((2, 0), (2, 0, 1))
```

## Previous

Use this to reference the position of the previous coordinate passed to a draw function. It takes the form of an empty {{array}} `()` and the previous position initially will be `(0, 0, 0)`. This will never reference the position of a coordinate used to define another coordinate.

```typc example
line((0,0), (1, 1))

// Draws a circle at (1,1)
circle(())
```

## Relative

Places the given coordinate relative to the previous coordinate. Or in other words, for the given coordinate, the previous coordinate will be used as the origin. Another coordinate can be given to act as the previous coordinate instead.

<Parameter name="rel" types="coordinate">
  The coordinate to place relative to the previous coordinate.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="update" types="bool" default_value="true">
  When false, the previous position will not be updated.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="to" types="coordinate" default_value="()">
  The coordinate to treat as the previous coordinate.
</Parameter>

In the example below, the red circle is placed one unit to the right of the blue circle. If the blue circle was to be moved to a different position, the red circle would move with the blue circle to stay one unit to the right.

```typc example
circle((0, 0), stroke: blue)
circle((rel: (1, 0)), stroke: red)
```

## Polar

Defines a point that is `radius` distance away from the origin at the given angle.

<Parameter name="angle" types="angle">
  The angle of the coordinate. A value of `0deg` is to the right, a value of `90deg` is upward.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="radius" types="number,array">
  The distance from the origin. An {{array}} of <Type>number</Type> can be given, in the form `(x, y)`, to define the `x` and `y` radii of an ellipse instead of a circle.
</Parameter>

```typc example
line((0, 0), (angle: 30deg, radius: 1))
```

The implicit form is an array of the angle then the radius `(angle, radius)` or `(angle, (x, y))`.

```typc example
line(
  (0, 0),
  (30deg, 1),
  (60deg, 1),
  (90deg, 1),
  (120deg, 1),
  (150deg, 1),
  (180deg, 1)
)
```

## Barycentric

In the barycentric coordinate system a point is expressed as the linear combination of multiple vectors. The idea is that you specify vectors $v_1, v_2, ..., v_n$ and numbers $\alpha_1, \alpha_2, ..., \alpha_n$. Then the barycentric coordinate specified by these vectors and numbers is

$$
\frac{\alpha_1 v_1 + \alpha_2 v_2 + \cdots + \alpha_n v_n}{\alpha_1 + \alpha_2 + \cdots + \alpha_n}
$$

<Parameter name="bary" types="dictionary">
  A dictionary where the key is a named element and the value is a{" "}
  <Type>float</Type>. The `center` anchor of the named element is used as $v$
  and the value is used as $\alpha$.
</Parameter>

```typc example
circle((90deg, 3), radius: 0, name: "content")
circle((210deg, 3), radius: 0, name: "structure")
circle((-30deg, 3), radius: 0, name: "form")

for (c, a) in (
  ("content", "south"),
  ("structure", "north"),
  ("form", "north")
) {
  content(c, align(center, c + [\ oriented]), padding: .1, anchor: a)
}

stroke(gray + 1.2pt)
line("content", "structure", "form", close: true)

for (c, s, f, cont) in (
  (0.5, 0.1, 1, "PostScript"),
  (1, 0, 0.4, "DVI"),
  (0.5, 0.5, 1, "PDF"),
  (0, 0.25, 1, "CSS"),
  (0.5, 1, 0, "XML"),
  (0.5, 1, 0.4, "HTML"),
  (1, 0.2, 0.8, "LaTeX"),
  (1, 0.6, 0.8, "TeX"),
  (0.8, 0.8, 1, "Word"),
  (1, 0.05, 0.05, "ASCII")
) {
  content(
    (bary: (
      content: c,
      structure: s,
      form: f
    )),
    cont,
    fill: rgb(50, 50, 255, 100),
    stroke: none,
    frame: "circle"
  )
}
```

## Anchor

Defines a point relative to a named element using anchors, see [Anchors](/basics/anchors).

<Parameter name="name" types="str">
  The name of the element that you wish to use to specify a coordinate.
</Parameter>

<Parameter
  name="anchor"
  types="str,angle,number,ratio,none"
  default_value="none"
>
  The anchor of the element. Strings are named anchors, angles are border
  anchors and numbers and ratios are path anchors. If not given, the default
  anchor will be used, on most elements this is `center` but it can be different or not exist at all!
</Parameter>

```typc example
circle((0,0), name: "circle")
// Anchor at 30 degree
content((name: "circle", anchor: 30deg), box(fill: white, $ 30 degree $))
// Anchor at 30% of the path length
content((name: "circle", anchor: 30%), box(fill: white, $ 30 % $))
// Anchor at 3.14 of the path
content((name: "circle", anchor: 3.14), box(fill: white, $ p = 3.14 $))
```

You can also use implicit syntax of a dot separated string in the form `"name.anchor"` for all anchors.

```typc example
line((0, 0), (4, 3), name: "line")
circle("line.75%", name: "circle")
rect("line.start", "circle.east")
```

When using named elements within a group, you can access the element's anchors outside of the group by using the implicit anchor coordinate, e.g. `"a.b.north"`.
```typc example
group(name: "a", {
  circle((), name: "b")
})
circle("a.b.south", radius: 0.2)
circle((name: "a", anchor: "b.north"), radius: 0.2)
```

## Tangent

This system allows you to compute the point that lies tangent to a shape. In detail, consider an element and a point. Now draw a straight line from the point so that it "touches" the element (more formally, so that it is _tangent_ to this element). The point where the line touches the shape is the point referred to by this coordinate system.

<Parameter name="element" types="str">
  The name of the element on whose border the tangent should lie.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="point" types="coordinate">
  The point through which the tangent should go.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="solution" types="int">
  Which solution should be used if there are more than one.
</Parameter>

A special algorithm is needed in order to compute the tangent for a given shape. Currently it does this by fitting an ellipse to the given center, north and east anchors (see [Anchors](/basics/anchors)), so only circles and ellipses will work correctly.

```typc example
grid((0,0), (3,2), help-lines: true)

circle((3,2), name: "a", radius: 2pt)
circle((1,1), name: "c", radius: 0.75)
content("c", $ c $, anchor: "north-east", padding: .1)

line(
  // The starting point or element
  "a",
  // The tangent coordinate
  (element: "c", point: "a", solution: 1),
  // The center of the circle
  "c",
  // The other tangent coordinate
  (element: "c", point: "a", solution: 2),
  "a",
  stroke: red
)
```

## Perpendicular

Can be used to find the intersection of a vertical line going through a point $p$ and a horizontal line going through some other point $q$.

<Parameter name="horizontal" types="coordinate">
  The coordinate through which the horizontal line passes.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="vertical" types="coordinate">
  The coordinate through which the vertical line passes.
</Parameter>

You can use the implicit syntax of `(horizontal, "|-", vertical)` or `(vertical, "-|", horizontal)`.

```typc example
set-style(content: (padding: .05))
content((30deg, 1), $ p_1 $, name: "p1")
content((75deg, 1), $ p_2 $, name: "p2")

line((-0.2, 0), (1.2, 0), name: "xline")
content("xline.end", $ q_1 $, anchor: "west")

line((2, -0.2), (2, 1.2), name: "yline")
content("yline.end", $ q_2 $, anchor: "south")

line("p1.south-east", (horizontal: (), vertical: "xline.end"))
line("p2.south-east", ((), "|-", "xline.end")) // Short form
line("p1.south-east", (vertical: (), horizontal: "yline.end"))
line("p2.south-east", ((), "-|", "yline.end")) // Short form
```

## Interpolation

Use this to linearly interpolate between two coordinates `a` and `b` with a given distance `number`. If `number` is a <Type>number</Type> the position will be at the absolute distance away from `a` towards `b`, a <Type>ratio</Type> can be given instead to be the relative distance between `a` and `b`. An <Type>angle</Type> can also be given for the general meaning: "First consider the line from `a` to `b`. Then rotate this line by `angle` around point `a`. Then the two endpoints of this line will be `a` and some point `c`. Use the point `c` for the subsequent computation."

<Parameter name="a" types="coordinate">
  The coordinate to interpolate from.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="b" types="coordinate">
  The coordinate to interpolate to.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="number" types="ratio,number">
  The distance between `a` and `b`. A <Type>ratio</Type> will be the relative
  distance between the two points, a <Type>number</Type> will be the absolute
  distance between the two points.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="angle" types="angle" default_value="0deg">
  Angle between $\vec{AB}$ and $\vec{AP}$, where $P$ is the resulting
  coordinate. This can be used to get the _normal_ for a tangent between two
  points.
</Parameter>

Can be used implicitly as an array in the form `(a, number, b)` or `(a, number, angle, b)`.

```typc example
grid((0,0), (3,3), help-lines: true)

line((0,0), (2,2), name: "a")
for i in (0%, 20%, 50%, 80%, 100%, 125%) { // Relative distance
  content(("a.start", i, "a.end"),
  box(fill: white, inset: 1pt, [#i]))
}

line((1,0), (3,2), name: "b")
for i in (0, 0.5, 1, 2) { // Absolute distance
  content(("b.start", i, "b.end"),
  box(fill: white, inset: 1pt, text(red, [#i])))
}
```

---

```typc example
grid((0,0), (3,3), help-lines: true)
line((1,0), (3,2))
line((1,0), ((1, 0), 1, 10deg, (3,2)))
fill(red)
stroke(none)
circle(((1, 0), 50%, 10deg, (3, 2)), radius: 2pt)
```

---

```typc example
grid((0,0), (4,4), help-lines: true)

fill(black)
stroke(none)
let n = 16
for i in range(0, n+1) {
  circle(((2,2), i / 8, i * 22.5deg, (3,2)), radius: 2pt)
}
```

You can even chain them together!

```typc example
grid((0,0), (3, 2), help-lines: true)
line((0,0), (3,2))
stroke(red)
line(((0,0), 0.3, (3,2)), (3,0))
fill(red)
stroke(none)
circle(
  ( // a
    (((0, 0), .3, (3, 2))),
    0.7,
    (3,0)
  ),
  radius: 2pt
)
```

---

```typc example
grid((0,0), (3, 2), help-lines: true)
line((1,0), (3,2))
for (l, c) in ((0cm, "0cm"), (1cm, "1cm"), (15mm, "15mm")) {
  content(((1,0), l, (3,2)), box(fill: white, $ #c $))
}
```

Interpolation coordinates can be used to get the _normal_ on a tangent:

```typc example
let (a, b) = ((0,0), (3,2))
line(a, b)
// Get normal for tangent from a to () with distance .5, at a
circle(a, radius: .1, fill: black)
line((a, .7, b), (a: (), b: a, number: .5, angle: 90deg), stroke: red)
```

## Function

An array where the first element is a function and the rest are coordinates will cause the function to be called with the resolved coordinates. The resolved coordinates will be given as a <Type>vector</Type> that represents an xyz point in space.

The example below shows how to use this system to create an offset from an anchor, however this could easily be replaced with a [relative coordinate](#relative) with the `to` argument set.

```typc example
circle((0, 0), name: "c")
fill(red)
circle((v => cetz.vector.add(v, (0, -1)), "c.west"), radius: 0.3)
```

Commit message:

docs: Add new coordinate system to docs

docs/basics/coordinate-systems.mdx, after:

---
title: Coordinate Systems
---

import Parameter from "@site/src/components/Parameter";
import Type from "@site/src/components/Type";

A <Type>coordinate</Type> is a position on the canvas on which the picture is drawn. They take the form of dictionaries and the following subsections define the key-value pairs for each system. Some systems have a more implicit form as an array of values and CeTZ attempts to infer the system based on the element types.

## XYZ

Defines a point `x` units right, `y` units upward and `z` units away.

<Parameter name="x" types="number" default_value="0">
  The number of units in the `x` direction.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="y" types="number" default_value="0">
  The number of units in the `y` direction.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="z" types="number" default_value="0">
  The number of units in the `z` direction.
</Parameter>

The implicit form can be given as an {{array}} of two or three <Type>number</Type>s, as in `(x, y)` or `(x, y, z)`.

```typc example
line((0,0), (x: 1))
line((0,0), (y: 1))
line((0,0), (z: 1))

// Implicit form
line((2, 0), (3, 0))
line((2, 0), (2, 1, 0))
line((2, 0), (2, 0, 1))
```

## Previous

Use this to reference the position of the previous coordinate passed to a draw function. It takes the form of an empty {{array}} `()` and the previous position initially will be `(0, 0, 0)`. This will never reference the position of a coordinate used to define another coordinate.

```typc example
line((0,0), (1, 1))

// Draws a circle at (1,1)
circle(())
```

## Relative

Places the given coordinate relative to the previous coordinate. Or in other words, for the given coordinate, the previous coordinate will be used as the origin. Another coordinate can be given to act as the previous coordinate instead.

<Parameter name="rel" types="coordinate">
  The coordinate to place relative to the previous coordinate.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="update" types="bool" default_value="true">
  When false, the previous position will not be updated.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="to" types="coordinate" default_value="()">
  The coordinate to treat as the previous coordinate.
</Parameter>

In the example below, the red circle is placed one unit to the right of the blue circle. If the blue circle was to be moved to a different position, the red circle would move with the blue circle to stay one unit to the right.

```typc example
circle((0, 0), stroke: blue)
circle((rel: (1, 0)), stroke: red)
```

## Polar

Defines a point that is `radius` distance away from the origin at the given angle.

<Parameter name="angle" types="angle">
  The angle of the coordinate. A value of `0deg` is to the right, a value of `90deg` is upward.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="radius" types="number,array">
  The distance from the origin. An {{array}} of <Type>number</Type> can be given, in the form `(x, y)`, to define the `x` and `y` radii of an ellipse instead of a circle.
</Parameter>

```typc example
line((0, 0), (angle: 30deg, radius: 1))
```

The implicit form is an array of the angle then the radius `(angle, radius)` or `(angle, (x, y))`.

```typc example
line(
  (0, 0),
  (30deg, 1),
  (60deg, 1),
  (90deg, 1),
  (120deg, 1),
  (150deg, 1),
  (180deg, 1)
)
```

## Barycentric

In the barycentric coordinate system a point is expressed as the linear combination of multiple vectors. The idea is that you specify vectors $v_1, v_2, ..., v_n$ and numbers $\alpha_1, \alpha_2, ..., \alpha_n$. Then the barycentric coordinate specified by these vectors and numbers is

$$
\frac{\alpha_1 v_1 + \alpha_2 v_2 + \cdots + \alpha_n v_n}{\alpha_1 + \alpha_2 + \cdots + \alpha_n}
$$

<Parameter name="bary" types="dictionary">
  A dictionary where the key is a named element and the value is a{" "}
  <Type>float</Type>. The `center` anchor of the named element is used as $v$
  and the value is used as $\alpha$.
</Parameter>

```typc example
circle((90deg, 3), radius: 0, name: "content")
circle((210deg, 3), radius: 0, name: "structure")
circle((-30deg, 3), radius: 0, name: "form")

for (c, a) in (
  ("content", "south"),
  ("structure", "north"),
  ("form", "north")
) {
  content(c, align(center, c + [\ oriented]), padding: .1, anchor: a)
}

stroke(gray + 1.2pt)
line("content", "structure", "form", close: true)

for (c, s, f, cont) in (
  (0.5, 0.1, 1, "PostScript"),
  (1, 0, 0.4, "DVI"),
  (0.5, 0.5, 1, "PDF"),
  (0, 0.25, 1, "CSS"),
  (0.5, 1, 0, "XML"),
  (0.5, 1, 0.4, "HTML"),
  (1, 0.2, 0.8, "LaTeX"),
  (1, 0.6, 0.8, "TeX"),
  (0.8, 0.8, 1, "Word"),
  (1, 0.05, 0.05, "ASCII")
) {
  content(
    (bary: (
      content: c,
      structure: s,
      form: f
    )),
    cont,
    fill: rgb(50, 50, 255, 100),
    stroke: none,
    frame: "circle"
  )
}
```

## Anchor

Defines a point relative to a named element using anchors, see [Anchors](/basics/anchors).

<Parameter name="name" types="str">
  The name of the element that you wish to use to specify a coordinate.
</Parameter>

<Parameter
  name="anchor"
  types="str,angle,number,ratio,none"
  default_value="none"
>
  The anchor of the element. Strings are named anchors, angles are border
  anchors and numbers and ratios are path anchors. If not given, the default
  anchor will be used, on most elements this is `center` but it can be different or not exist at all!
</Parameter>

```typc example
circle((0,0), name: "circle")
// Anchor at 30 degree
content((name: "circle", anchor: 30deg), box(fill: white, $ 30 degree $))
// Anchor at 30% of the path length
content((name: "circle", anchor: 30%), box(fill: white, $ 30 % $))
// Anchor at 3.14 of the path
content((name: "circle", anchor: 3.14), box(fill: white, $ p = 3.14 $))
```

You can also use implicit syntax of a dot separated string in the form `"name.anchor"` for all anchors.

```typc example
line((0, 0), (4, 3), name: "line")
circle("line.75%", name: "circle")
rect("line.start", "circle.east")
```

When using named elements within a group, you can access the element's anchors outside of the group by using the implicit anchor coordinate, e.g. `"a.b.north"`.
```typc example
group(name: "a", {
  circle((), name: "b")
})
circle("a.b.south", radius: 0.2)
circle((name: "a", anchor: "b.north"), radius: 0.2)
```

## Tangent

This system allows you to compute the point that lies tangent to a shape. In detail, consider an element and a point. Now draw a straight line from the point so that it "touches" the element (more formally, so that it is _tangent_ to this element). The point where the line touches the shape is the point referred to by this coordinate system.

<Parameter name="element" types="str">
  The name of the element on whose border the tangent should lie.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="point" types="coordinate">
  The point through which the tangent should go.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="solution" types="int">
  Which solution should be used if there are more than one.
</Parameter>

A special algorithm is needed in order to compute the tangent for a given shape. Currently it does this by fitting an ellipse to the given center, north and east anchors (see [Anchors](/basics/anchors)), so only circles and ellipses will work correctly.

```typc example
grid((0,0), (3,2), help-lines: true)

circle((3,2), name: "a", radius: 2pt)
circle((1,1), name: "c", radius: 0.75)
content("c", $ c $, anchor: "north-east", padding: .1)

line(
  // The starting point or element
  "a",
  // The tangent coordinate
  (element: "c", point: "a", solution: 1),
  // The center of the circle
  "c",
  // The other tangent coordinate
  (element: "c", point: "a", solution: 2),
  "a",
  stroke: red
)
```

## Perpendicular

Can be used to find the intersection of a vertical line going through a point $p$ and a horizontal line going through some other point $q$.

<Parameter name="horizontal" types="coordinate">
  The coordinate through which the horizontal line passes.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="vertical" types="coordinate">
  The coordinate through which the vertical line passes.
</Parameter>

You can use the implicit syntax of `(horizontal, "|-", vertical)` or `(vertical, "-|", horizontal)`.

```typc example
set-style(content: (padding: .05))
content((30deg, 1), $ p_1 $, name: "p1")
content((75deg, 1), $ p_2 $, name: "p2")

line((-0.2, 0), (1.2, 0), name: "xline")
content("xline.end", $ q_1 $, anchor: "west")

line((2, -0.2), (2, 1.2), name: "yline")
content("yline.end", $ q_2 $, anchor: "south")

line("p1.south-east", (horizontal: (), vertical: "xline.end"))
line("p2.south-east", ((), "|-", "xline.end")) // Short form
line("p1.south-east", (vertical: (), horizontal: "yline.end"))
line("p2.south-east", ((), "-|", "yline.end")) // Short form
```

## Interpolation

Use this to linearly interpolate between two coordinates `a` and `b` with a given distance `number`. If `number` is a <Type>number</Type> the position will be at the absolute distance away from `a` towards `b`, a <Type>ratio</Type> can be given instead to be the relative distance between `a` and `b`. An <Type>angle</Type> can also be given for the general meaning: "First consider the line from `a` to `b`. Then rotate this line by `angle` around point `a`. Then the two endpoints of this line will be `a` and some point `c`. Use the point `c` for the subsequent computation."

<Parameter name="a" types="coordinate">
  The coordinate to interpolate from.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="b" types="coordinate">
  The coordinate to interpolate to.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="number" types="ratio,number">
  The distance between `a` and `b`. A <Type>ratio</Type> will be the relative
  distance between the two points, a <Type>number</Type> will be the absolute
  distance between the two points.
</Parameter>

<Parameter name="angle" types="angle" default_value="0deg">
  Angle between $\vec{AB}$ and $\vec{AP}$, where $P$ is the resulting
  coordinate. This can be used to get the _normal_ for a tangent between two
  points.
</Parameter>

Can be used implicitly as an array in the form `(a, number, b)` or `(a, number, angle, b)`.

```typc example
grid((0,0), (3,3), help-lines: true)

line((0,0), (2,2), name: "a")
for i in (0%, 20%, 50%, 80%, 100%, 125%) { // Relative distance
  content(("a.start", i, "a.end"),
  box(fill: white, inset: 1pt, [#i]))
}

line((1,0), (3,2), name: "b")
for i in (0, 0.5, 1, 2) { // Absolute distance
  content(("b.start", i, "b.end"),
  box(fill: white, inset: 1pt, text(red, [#i])))
}
```

---

```typc example
grid((0,0), (3,3), help-lines: true)
line((1,0), (3,2))
line((1,0), ((1, 0), 1, 10deg, (3,2)))
fill(red)
stroke(none)
circle(((1, 0), 50%, 10deg, (3, 2)), radius: 2pt)
```

---

```typc example
grid((0,0), (4,4), help-lines: true)

fill(black)
stroke(none)
let n = 16
for i in range(0, n+1) {
  circle(((2,2), i / 8, i * 22.5deg, (3,2)), radius: 2pt)
}
```

You can even chain them together!

```typc example
grid((0,0), (3, 2), help-lines: true)
line((0,0), (3,2))
stroke(red)
line(((0,0), 0.3, (3,2)), (3,0))
fill(red)
stroke(none)
circle(
  ( // a
    (((0, 0), .3, (3, 2))),
    0.7,
    (3,0)
  ),
  radius: 2pt
)
```

---

```typc example
grid((0,0), (3, 2), help-lines: true)
line((1,0), (3,2))
for (l, c) in ((0cm, "0cm"), (1cm, "1cm"), (15mm, "15mm")) {
  content(((1,0), l, (3,2)), box(fill: white, $ #c $))
}
```

Interpolation coordinates can be used to get the _normal_ on a tangent:

```typc example
let (a, b) = ((0,0), (3,2))
line(a, b)
// Get normal for tangent from a to () with distance .5, at a
circle(a, radius: .1, fill: black)
line((a, .7, b), (a: (), b: a, number: .5, angle: 90deg), stroke: red)
```

## Projection

To project a point `pt` onto a line from `a` to `b`, you can use the
`(project: pt, onto: (a, b))` or short `(pt, "_|_", a, b)` coordinate.

```typc exapmle
set-style(fill: black, radius: 0.1)

circle(name: "A", (0, 0))
circle(name: "B", (3, 1))
circle(name: "P", (1.9, -1.6))

line("A", "B")
line("P", (project: "P", onto: ("A", "B")))
```

## Function

An array where the first element is a function and the rest are coordinates will cause the function to be called with the resolved coordinates. The resolved coordinates will be given as a <Type>vector</Type> that represents an xyz point in space.

The example below shows how to use this system to create an offset from an anchor, however this could easily be replaced with a [relative coordinate](#relative) with the `to` argument set.

```typc example
circle((0, 0), name: "c")
fill(red)
circle((v => cetz.vector.add(v, (0, -1)), "c.west"), radius: 0.3)
```
